courses/cantrill_asap/monitoring_logging_cost_management/cloudtrail.md, before:

### CloudTrail 

The job of CloudTrail is to log activities within an AWS account. Every activity or API call gets logged there as a `CloudTrail Event`. These includes actions by `users`, `roles` or `services`.

AWS by default stores `90 days` of history for no cost in the form of an `Event History`. If you want to customize this in any way you have to create a `Trail`.

There are three types of events that you can work with within CloudTrail, `Management`, `Data` and `Insight` events.

`Management` events are control plane actions like for example creating or deleting resources (e.g. EC2) or logging into the console, while `Data` events are operations are performed on a `resource`. Like uploading objects to `S3`, or invoking a `Lambda` function. By default AWS only logs Management events, because Data events can be much higher in volume therefore would be much more expensive.

#### How to configure CloudTrail

Within the service a `CloudTrail Trail` is the smallest unit of configuration. CloudTrail is a `regional` service which means it has to be set up within a region. When configuring it can be set to be a `One region` or `All regions` trail.

If it uses `One region` configuration then every service that it is trailing has to be in the same region. If it is an `All regions` trail then it will collect logs from all regions. This has the added benefit that `if AWS introduces new regions` then the trail with this setting will automatically pick up the new region. 

Global services like `IAM`, `STS` or `Cloudfront` send their data to `us-east-1`. These types of events are called `Global service events` and apart from having a CloudTrail being correctly set up in the `us-east-1` region they also have to have the feature to log these events enabled to make it work.

#### How do CloudTrail logs get stored?

When setting up CloudTrail you have to specify an `S3 bucket` where the logs get stored as `compressed JSON` files to minimize storage.

In addition to that CloudTrail can be configured to forward the collected logs to `CloudWatch Logs`.

#### Managing logs accross an organization

One of the newer features of CloudTrails is that if you set up the trail within the `management account` of the orgainization then you get the ability to track logs accross every account withing that organization.

#### Additional considerations

CloudTrail is `not a real time service`, typically the logs appear with a `15 minute delay` and logs multiple times an hour.

Commit message:

feat: added proper notes on cloud trail pricing

courses/cantrill_asap/monitoring_logging_cost_management/cloudtrail.md, after:

### CloudTrail 

The job of CloudTrail is to log activities within an AWS account. Every activity or API call gets logged there as a `CloudTrail Event`. These includes actions by `users`, `roles` or `services`.

AWS by default stores `90 days` of history for no cost in the form of an `Event History`. If you want to customize this in any way you have to create a `Trail`.

There are three types of events that you can work with within CloudTrail, `Management`, `Data` and `Insight` events.

`Management` events are control plane actions like for example creating or deleting resources (e.g. EC2) or logging into the console, while `Data` events are operations are performed on a `resource`. Like uploading objects to `S3`, or invoking a `Lambda` function. By default AWS only logs Management events, because Data events can be much higher in volume therefore would be much more expensive.

#### How to configure CloudTrail

Within the service a `CloudTrail Trail` is the smallest unit of configuration. CloudTrail is a `regional` service which means it has to be set up within a region. When configuring it can be set to be a `One region` or `All regions` trail.

If it uses `One region` configuration then every service that it is trailing has to be in the same region. If it is an `All regions` trail then it will collect logs from all regions. This has the added benefit that `if AWS introduces new regions` then the trail with this setting will automatically pick up the new region. 

Global services like `IAM`, `STS` or `Cloudfront` send their data to `us-east-1`. These types of events are called `Global service events` and apart from having a CloudTrail being correctly set up in the `us-east-1` region they also have to have the feature to log these events enabled to make it work.

#### How do CloudTrail logs get stored?

When setting up CloudTrail you have to specify an `S3 bucket` where the logs get stored as `compressed JSON` files to minimize storage.

In addition to that CloudTrail can be configured to forward the collected logs to `CloudWatch Logs`.

#### CloudTrail pricing

In terms of pricing CloudTrail charges for the logs that get analyzed and stored. In terms of analysis `one trail in every region on every account for Management events come for free`, but Data events or additional trails cost money. In terms of storage the `S3` storage rates apply (so it is a smart move to configure the bucket accordingly).

#### Managing logs accross an organization

One of the newer features of CloudTrails is that if you set up the trail within the `management account` of the orgainization then you get the ability to track logs accross every account withing that organization.

#### Additional considerations

CloudTrail is `not a real time service`, typically the logs appear with a `15 minute delay` and logs multiple times an hour.
