bookmarks/devops.md, before:

### DevOps

---

| Category | Type    | Description                                  | Why                                                                                                             | Link                                                                                                                                       |
| :------- | :------ | :------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CI/CD`  | `VIDEO` | How to design a modern CI/CD Pipeline        | Short video on how to create a pipeline that gets you from committing code to creating a release ready artifact | [<img src="./thumbnails/thumbnail_devopsjourney_001.jpg" alt="DevOps Journey 1" width="100">](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KnSBNd3b0qI) |
| `CI/CD`  | `VIDEO` | How to design a Deployment Pipeline (GitOps) | Short video on how to deploy artifacts to different environments                                                | [<img src="./thumbnails/thumbnail_devopsjourney_002.jpg" alt="DevOps Journey 2" width="100">](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJ9f7w4AxtU) |

Commit message:

Added production readiness devops checklist bookmark

bookmarks/devops.md, after:

### DevOps

---

| Category | Type    | Description                                  | Why                                                                                                             | Link                                                                                                                                                         |
| :------- | :------ | :------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CI/CD`  | `VIDEO` | How to design a modern CI/CD Pipeline        | Short video on how to create a pipeline that gets you from committing code to creating a release ready artifact | [<img src="./thumbnails/thumbnail_devopsjourney_001.jpg" alt="DevOps Journey 1" width="100">](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KnSBNd3b0qI)                   |
| `CI/CD`  | `VIDEO` | How to design a Deployment Pipeline (GitOps) | Short video on how to deploy artifacts to different environments                                                | [<img src="./thumbnails/thumbnail_devopsjourney_002.jpg" alt="DevOps Journey 2" width="100">](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJ9f7w4AxtU)                   |
| `DevOps` | `BLOG`  | Production Readiness Checklist               | Concise list of bullet points that you want to run through to make sure you are production ready                | [<img src="./thumbnails/thumbnail_gruntworks_devops_checklist.jpg" alt="Production Readiness Checklist" width="100">](https://gruntwork.io/devops-checklist) |
