---
title: DNS record types
author: GaborZeller
date: 2024-11-10T12-18-14Z
tags:
draft: true
---

# DNS record types

Here is an example configuration for a website.

| Type | Hostname     | Value | TTL | Priority|
|----|----------------|-------|-----|---------|
| A | gz.co.uk | 133.229.21.212 | 3600 | - |
| NS| gz.co.uk| ns1.digitalocean.com.| 1800| - |
| NS| gz.co.uk| ns2.digitalocean.com.| 1800| - |
| NS| gz.co.uk| ns3.digitalocean.com.| 1800| - |
| MX | gz.co.uk | gz | 1800 | 10 |
| MX | gz.co.uk | mx.zoho.co.uk. | 1800 | 15 |
| MX | gz.co.uk | mx2.zoho.co.uk. | 1800 | 20 |
| MX | gz.co.uk | mx3.zoho.co.uk. | 1800 | 50 |
| TXT | gz.co.uk | zoho-verification=ab15373195.zmverify.zoho.eu | 1800 | - |

## NS record

The name server record. This is the one that points to your `nameservers` storing your `zonefiles`.

## A record and AAAA record

These are pointint to actual `IP addresses`, like `172.217.25.36`. A points to IPv4 and the AAAA to an IPv6 address. You usually create two identical names, one for the A record and the other for the AAAA record and let the client pick the one that it wants to use.

## CNAME record

It is a host to host record, think of it as a redirect or forwarding. It is fairly common that a server does multiple tasks, like being an `ftp`, `mail` or `www (web)` server.

A common practice to creaate different CNAME records to point to the same A record.

[!WARNING] CNAME records can NOT point directly to an IP address

## MX record

MX records are used for sending emails. When a server wants to send a mail it needs to know which server to forward the email to.

MX records have a `priority` and a `value`. The prioriy determines which server to use. The lower the number the higher the priroriy.

If the value is just a `hostname`, like in the above example `gz` it will assume the server belongs to the domain specified in the A record. If it is a fully qualified domain name like `mx.zoho.co.uk` then the DNS traversal starts all over again to find the mail server.

Once the client finds the server that it wants to send the mail to it uses the `SMTP` protocol to send the mail.

## TXT record

TXT records are used to provide additional functionality to the DNS system. The most common use case is to `prove ownership` of a domain. For example if we uae an other mail provider then that provider will ask us to populate our zonefile with a TXT record that they can query for verification.

## What is TTL

When querying a domain it is an expensive process because we have to hop from server to server until we get to the `authoratative name server` to get an `authoratiative` response of what is the `IP address` of the domain. This is why `DNS resolvers` cache that data so further querying takes less time.

TTL stands for `time to live`, it is a single number and measured in `seconds` and determines for how long the results of a DNS query are being cached.

This is why as a best practice if you want to avoid headaches it is worth either `setting the value low well ahead in advance` or `keep it permanently low`.

