inbox/git-log-20241119203942.md, before:

---
title: Git log
author: GaborZeller
date: 2024-11-19T20-39-42Z
tags:
draft: true
---

# Git log

## View git logs

```sh
git log --oneline --decorate --stat -p -n <number> --graph
git log --no-merges
git log --merges
```

- `oneline` - just hash and title of commits
- `decorate` - print out refs
- `stat` - number of line changes in commits
- `p` - actual changes in the commits
- `n` - number of commits to show
- `graph` - print out an ASCII graph representation of the logs
- `no-merges` - exclude merges
- `merges ` - only merge commits

## View git logs grouped by user

```sh
git shortlog
```

## Filter git logs

### Filter by date

```sh
git log --after="2014-7-1"
git log --after="yesterday"
git log --after="2014-7-1" --before="2014-7-4" # between dates
```

### Filter by author

```sh
git log --author="John"
git log --author="John\|Mary" # filter by multiple authors
git log --author="author@gmail.com" # can filter by email
```

### Filter by commit message

```sh
git log --grep="JRA-224:"
```

### Filter by file

```sh
git log -- foo.py bar.py
```

### Filter by specific change (pickaxe)

```sh
git log -S "Hello, World!" # search for a specific word in the code
```

### Filter divergent branches

```sh
git log main..feature
```

The above will show how far `feature` has diverged from `main`.

### Filter by deleted

```sh
git log --diff-filter=D --summary
```

Commit message:

feat: added a short explanation to what filter by deleted does when using git logs

inbox/git-log-20241119203942.md, after:

---
title: Git log
author: GaborZeller
date: 2024-11-19T20-39-42Z
tags:
draft: true
---

# Git log

## View git logs

```sh
git log --oneline --decorate --stat -p -n <number> --graph
git log --no-merges
git log --merges
```

- `oneline` - just hash and title of commits
- `decorate` - print out refs
- `stat` - number of line changes in commits
- `p` - actual changes in the commits
- `n` - number of commits to show
- `graph` - print out an ASCII graph representation of the logs
- `no-merges` - exclude merges
- `merges ` - only merge commits

## View git logs grouped by user

```sh
git shortlog
```

## Filter git logs

### Filter by date

```sh
git log --after="2014-7-1"
git log --after="yesterday"
git log --after="2014-7-1" --before="2014-7-4" # between dates
```

### Filter by author

```sh
git log --author="John"
git log --author="John\|Mary" # filter by multiple authors
git log --author="author@gmail.com" # can filter by email
```

### Filter by commit message

```sh
git log --grep="JRA-224:"
```

### Filter by file

```sh
git log -- foo.py bar.py
```

### Filter by specific change (pickaxe)

```sh
git log -S "Hello, World!" # search for a specific word in the code
```

### Filter divergent branches

```sh
git log main..feature
```

The above will show how far `feature` has diverged from `main`.

### Filter by deleted

Useful if you want to find files or directories that have been deleted.

```sh
git log --diff-filter=D --summary
```
